# Air-Pollution-Index-Prediction
With the increasing menace of air pollution in metropolitan cities like Delhi it is important to take the aid of data analysis to tackle this isssue.Based on the results gathered for the various methods it can be observed that the PM2.5 concentration can be predicted to quite an extent on hourly basis depending upon the current meteorological parameters and the previous hour concentration levels. The Multiple Regression Analysis is also able to develop a mathematical relation between the expected output and the input matrix in terms of a simple linear equation.  
Other Regression techniques used for the same purpose indicate that the prediction model can be extended to other methodologies as well. Using Support Vector Regression proves to be very beneficial because it reduces the Mean Average Error Percentage as well as the Root Mean Square Error. This is due to the fact that Support Vector Machines have the property of removing outliers in the dataset. 
Using RNN for prediction on basis of time series alone generates a bit more Mean Average Error than the other methods used however the Mean Square Error is low which indicates that even though the accuracy of the prediction model is low its deviation from the actual value is also low.  
To overcome this problem other parameters have been incorporated in the ANN and the results show that it generates the least Mean Average Error Percentage as well as the least Mean Square Error among all the methods used. The only drawback of using Neural Networks is that the computation power is highly dependent on the Hardware of the system i.e. requires good processors to make better predictions as the high number of nodes are required for accurate results. 
Therefore, it can be said that the Short Term Pollution Level Prediction System can be modelled using techniques of Machine Learning on relevant data available.  
